1. Why MapReduce program is needed in Pig Programming?

As hadoop is a java based framework the pig queries we write are converted into mapreduce programs internally.
Pig statements are like SQL queries which is needed to be converted to mapreduce jobs to be executed in hadoop.


2. What are advantages of Pig over MapReduce?

MapReduce are Java programs that must be in terms of mapper and reducer but Pig is like SQL Queries with simple syntax
 which make them easier to think and write.
The number of lines in a Pig Script is comparatively very much lesser than that of complex map reduce programs.


3. What is Pig engine and what is its importance?

Pig Engine is the execution environment in which Pig Latin are converted into mapreduce jobs for execution.


4. What are the modes of Pig execution?

Local mode: The pig script is executed in the local unix path. 
The input file is in the Localfile system.

MapReduce mode:The pig Script is executed in the Hadoop cluster.
The input and output paths are the HDFS.

5. What is Grunt Shell in Pig?

It is a interactive shell in which we can execute the pig commands directly rather than as a Script file.

6. What are the features of Pig Latin language?
It is easier to write Pig Latin than writing complex mapreduce jobs.
The Pig Latin is automatically converted to Mapreduce jobs by the execution engine.
It has support to process huge amounts of data.
It has many built-in operators and also supports the creation of user defined functions in other programming languages
and invoke in pig scripts.


7. Is Pig Latin commands case sensitive?

The names of relations,fields and pig latin functions are case sensitive 
while the names of parameters and all other pig latin keywords are case insensitive.

8. What is a data flow language?

A data flow language is one which can be represented as a directed graph with a
specific flow of data through the programme thus implementing data flow priniciples and 
architecture rules laid on them.
